Hotline League is brought to you by
opened by HP all right we got a zento on
the show how's it going i zento it's
going pretty good how are you guys doing
very very good what do you where you
come from
call from LA Hey Los Angeles California
I lived there what do you want to talk
about so I wanted to revisit the
conversation of coaches getting blamed
for draft because you know that was a
very big topic back in last worlds and
partly but recently the six people
wanted the six fired and and that was
people were saying it was because of the
draft yeah yeah exactly and I have a
problem with a lot of coaches kind of
displacing blame away from themselves
and players also defending that as well
too and saying that it's not necessarily
the coach's fault because I think it
boils down to more than that because
it's it's a very nuanced topic of course
because you know it has to do with the
players champions pool and you know what
they can do with certain champions
whether they are meta or not you know
just for instance like who he's aurelion
sol like sure that's not necessarily a
meta champion but he is good with that
champion but I think it's a coach's
responsibility in order to instill this
following of the meta because when you
look at the meta and you think of the
purpose of what the meta actually is to
the professional scene it's to play at
the highest level possible and the most
optimal way to do that is to play
towards the meta because those are the
opie champions and so I think a coach
should ultimately be responsible for
what is you know played with in the
games okay so you think that I do would
you say the coach should be 100%
responsible for the draft no I'm not I'm
not saying a hundred percent because
there's also a player's skill curve or
ability to retain knowledge because
that varies between different players
some players you know they are good at a
specific champion better than other
champions for instance Phoenix on Azir
he's very good more than the average LCS
player on Azir so you can say that his
skill curve for that champion is higher
and you can assume that that goes over
on different champions as well too
regardless of if their meta or not but I
think there still should be a culture
instilled within the team to learn meta
champions and if a coaches draft is
necessarily ruined because of a player's
champion pool that should also fall upon
the coach as well - probably how do you
think it's a well I feel like I did an
interview in the past where you were
like hey listen I'm not the only person
doing the draft here like it's a
conversation and least that's how you
sound by the way and like I other people
should be you know they're giving me
advice on who they want to play - yeah I
think that's more like an insight to how
it works as opposed to hey it's not all
me because I would blame myself for
every single draft we've done like good
and bad I would say it's all like
because ultimately it's all the decision
or all the information I get from the
players information I get from scrims
and then like how well we perform in
these champions and it's ultimately like
I'm deciding well we're gonna pick even
to the extent where if a player says
like let me play this champion here so
good it still ultimately like if I'm
sitting there champs like to be like no
we're not playing it I don't I don't
think the team is gonna be like no like
don't listen to the coach pick what you
want it's like so I think even when I'm
like when I hear it
players say like oh I'm really confident
this champion let's play it like it
still feels like I'm I should be
responsible for allowing that or not
allowing that and it's up to me to hand
a judge like is this right to like let
him do this confidence pick over like a
safe pick or something so I'd still like
hold myself responsible for that
judge myself as opposed to being like
well the player wanted to play it so
it's all on him um I definitely think oh
well sorry
anyway but so then what is your opinion
on those coaches or those players that
kind of shift the blame away from the
coach themselves because as you're
saying you take responsibility for the
actions of your players and where the
that they can play these meta picks are
everything but in the past coaches have
said oh well it's it's all about how the
team coordinates together and how you
know the the meta picks meshed together
and and they can't necessarily play
these picks so you shouldn't necessarily
blame the players and yet you shouldn't
necessarily blame the coach as well too
so you know which is it duh do you blame
the coach or do you blame the players
like should the coach necessarily take
the whole fall for the team or what it's
kind of up to how that what that coach
is capable of the reason why I think
responsibility for that kind of stuff is
because I know I can show a player how
to play a champion correctly if I have
to so if we're not picking a certain
champion because like we we didn't learn
it or something I'm sure some coaches
will say like oh my player just can't
play that champion so we didn't pick it
I think it's more like I didn't do a
good job of like making him believe this
pick can work with him and with this
play style and I didn't like show him
the right things or like I didn't give
him the opportunities to play it
correctly or learn it correct that I
guess so
if one of my players is not playing a
Medic champion I had the ability to fix
that and I probably I just didn't put
enough effort into that or I just wasn't
focused on it or I was just like wrong
about how to approach it so I would take
that blame upon myself because I know
I'm capable of teaching that player how
to play this champion if we really need
it other coaches I don't think are that
focused on like this is what they want
to do you know like I mean I still play
the game a whole bunch so it's a lot
easier for me to like get on their level
when it comes to learning a champion
but I think other coaches like only use
the information from scrims
or only from other regions to kind of
determine what pick bans gonna be and I
kind of use also like the fact that I
still play and I kind of understand how
like my players like learning curves
will be you a certain champions and how
they'll fit so everything that has to do
with pick/ban I can always fix it and
improve it if like I put that much work
into it so if something goes wrong I I
won't always take the blame for it for
it I think that's just a comfortable
style for coaching I think if you if you
want to just say like pick/ban is like a
team thing I think you can you just
won't be pushing yourself as a coach so
that's like my answer because that's how
I want to approach it to get better as a
coach I think like judging other teams I
wouldn't just blame the coach personally
because I don't know what their role is
on the team like as a coach what they
actually do for a pick ban Ryan's just
to play devil's advocate like zabi teen
at the start of the split was very much
about like player empowerment in terms
of like what they were gonna play and
stuff like that he did a couple
interviews where he was like yeah you
know if a player wants to feel something
I'll pretty much always be like sure you
know and I think you kind of saw that
that one time that felt like arrow was
like I want to play Draven and he like a
team blinded Caitlyn he was like I'm
playing trade then they picked her even
into Caitlyn he spelled out 40 CCS like
I think if you want to blame the coach
for not having a more strict methodology
in that system I think maybe you can you
can levy that criticism but then you're
talking more about the structure that
they set up I guess so I don't know I
think it depends on which team does what
yeah yeah and and that's that's maybe
going towards the Korean mountain
mentality or what I assume is the Korean
mentality of that the coach kind of has
this full control and so they're able to
dictate exactly what the players play
and whether they study Metta picks or
not and maybe that's why the Korean
Metta is usually at the forefront
because they are the ones innovating
these picks they're the ones actually
perfecting these picks themselves but
speaking to
actually improving a player and
improving their Metta picks over time
then what do you have to say about Ryu
and his previous performance over the
past on you know h2k because he always
had a problem with playing meta picks
themselves so I'm super sorry to do this
to you we could but we're 15 minutes
overtime so I can't further the
conversation I really appreciate the
conversation just about coaching I think
it was really good sorry to cut you off
message me two batters yeah I'll get to
that else yes how about that that's okay
thanks dude
all right hey before we go the next
caller Pro let's have a quick question
you how do you feel about you know Ryu
because some people have criticized his
champion pool and mostly playing like
Taliah and rise so like you know would
you say you deserve any criticism yeah
it is it is really all my fault
because like if I can't make I don't
know look at this Opie champion
100% win rate if I can't make that
champion look juicy for my player then
like I'm my approach is wrong or there's
or maybe I'm just wrong about how the
champion should be played relative to my
player like there's something I'm not
getting it correctly sure but I have a
question it's like I don't know if this
is the case with Ryu we don't see him
play as here very much it feels like his
Cassio's fine he can play some of the
standard control majors but like do you
feel like you deserve the criticism for
him not playing is here or is it at some
point we're like I've tried I have done
my best it has not worked and these
other strategies are more likely to
result in a win so I'm just gonna go
with them but like that first problem of
not learning the easier or something or
whatever whatever champion you might
have or more personal experience like do
you feel like you still deserve the most
blame for that or do you feel like you
know at some point some players do have
certain affinities to champions and it's
fine to let them be that well like the
way I want to coach like yeah I want
that blame okay
like that that should be on me because
they have stuff like even those ear like
I mean he's got Anna nerfed again but I
still think he's super playable so if
we're not picking him it's like I have
to have a reason why we're not picking
like a strong champion like that and if
I can't like convince for you to play it
or like make him like or help him
improve on that like dude how can I not
make a player better like that's my job
so if you can't play this champion or
like the team can't play with this
champion like dude that's that should be
all on me so skill shot that's something
like I can kind of help with but it's
sometimes that's gonna be out of my
control but realistically like dude if
he's thrown a skill shot I could
probably help him with that too I mean
cool so when I when I came with that
review question I didn't mean it to have
it sound so harsh because I believe that
ryu has improved with his champion pool
like specifically Taliah if you guys
remember last split or last year on p1
it's awful probably one of his
worst champions i would think with
playing with Thalia and specifically
playing with the team his alts were just
god-awful but now he's looking quite
better you know on 100 thieves so was
this kind of a champion that you
pinpointed and said you had to work on
this sorry if I you want to continue the
conversation
I have not cleared the next hour of my
life
so they Travis no thank you
mark use you kit you can't have it both
ways
alright what you wanted to go walk it
goes what I asked the question and you
brought as how's JAMA you're cutting in
and out for some reason I said I was
saying you put him in the channel not me
this is you wanting it both hey sorry
so I do l CS 2 so maybe let's just save
that one for problem yeah yeah
yeah sounds good thanks alright guys
have a good night thanks dude
I don't know how to feel like when I'm
asked a question and I'm not allowed to
answer it now I'm like what do I say now
nothing we get the last guy moving on
probably alright this is not democracy
yeah you can grab the last guy